Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 1 
PFAS Release Mapping of Articles Used in Semiconductor Manufacturing 
Semiconductor PFAS Consortium Articles Working Group  
September 21, 2023 
Acknowledgments: The PFAS Consortium would like to acknowledge the contributions of the 
Semiconductor PFAS Consortium Articles technical working group. 
  
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 2 
This publication was developed by the Semiconductor PFAS Consortium. The contents do not necessarily 
reflect the uses, views or stated policies of individual consortium members. 
The Semiconductor PFAS Consortium is an international group of semiconductor industry stakeholders 
formed to collect the technical data needed to formulate an industry approach to perfluoroalkyl and 
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). Consortium membership comprises semiconductor manufacturers and 
members of the supply chain, including chemical, material and equipment suppliers. 
 
AGC Chemicals America Georg Fischer Robert Bosch GmbH 
Analog Devices Inc. GlobalFoundries Samsung Austin Semiconductor 
Applied Materials Inc. Henkel SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co. Ltd. 
Arkema Hitachi High-Tech America Senju Metal Industry Co. Ltd. 
ASML IBM Shin-Etsu MicroSi 
BASF Intel Corp. Skywater 
Brewer Science JSR Solvay 
Central Glass Co. Ltd. KLA STMicroelectronics 
Chemours Lam Research Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd. 
DuPont Linde Texas Instruments Inc. 
Edwards Microchip Tokyo Electron Ltd. 
EMD Electronics Micron Technology Tokyo Ohka Kogyo Co. Ltd. 
Entegris Moses Lake Industries TSMC 
Fujifilm Electronic Materials NXP Semiconductors Zeiss 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date  Revision Number Revision 
9/21/2023 Rev. 0  Initial Publication  
   
 
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 3 
Abstract 
Articles used in semiconductor manufacturing represent a diverse collection of parts, components, 
consumables, assemblages and subsystems, loosely grouped together to represent a class of essential 
items distinct from the chemicals, gases and materials that are also required. Tubing, piping, filters, 
drums, vessels, valves, storage boxes, seals, wafer handlers and other equipment components represent 
just a small fraction of the objects classifiable as articles. 
Given demanding specifications for purity, cleanliness and reliability, coupled with extreme temperatures 
and contact with aggressive chemistries such as strong acids, bases, oxidizers and plasmas, articles must 
be able to withstand harsh conditions, have long durability, not contribute to defectivity, and not leach 
material from or into the contacted materials being delivered, measured or processed. 
The properties of PFAS-containing materials include thermal and chemical resistance, extended usable 
life, flexibility and lubricity, and manufacturability. This class of materials is undergoing increasing levels 
of scrutiny, as some small-molecule PFAS-containing materials have been shown to have undesirable 
health effects. 
Understanding the potential release of PFAS-containing articles to the environment requires 
comprehending the different types of articles, their role in the semiconductor manufacturing process, the 
potential release points during use, and how manufacturers dispose of them at their end of life. Articles 
range from those with a relatively short life span – ranging from single use to several months’ duration – 
to those that are essentially permanent components of a semiconductor manufacturing facility and may 
have a useful lifetime of 25 years or more. 
Mapping the sources and release pathways of PFAS-containing articles throughout the life cycle of a 
semiconductor manufacturing facility reveals the complexities and diversity of potential releases. 
Numerous examples of different PFAS-containing articles and their potential release modes further 
illustrate the ubiquitous nature of these items and their importance in semiconductor manufacturing. 
Background 
Per- and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are manmade chemicals used in many everyday applications 
with specific beneficial properties such as chemical stability.  Recently there is suggestion that members 
of this class of compounds exhibit high environmental persistence (vP), which is combined in some 
members with bioaccumulation (B) and toxicity (T). It is highly probable that PFAS chemicals will be 
subject to significant regulatory restrictions in the future. At the same time, PFAS-containing materials are 
crucial components used in semiconductor manufacturing, to the extent that the manufacture of advanced 
semiconductor chips is currently not possible without them. 
The Semiconductor PFAS Consortium has chosen the broadest definition found in recent proposed 
regulations and includes in its definition of PFAS all chemistries and materials that contain molecules 
with -CF2- and/or -CF3 groups. This definition closely aligns with the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development definition1. Despite the consortium’s broad definition of PFAS, not all 
PFAS-containing materials within the definition are considered bioaccumulative or toxic. 
The fluorinated organic molecule in the form of a fluoropolymer or fluoroelastomer possesses numerous 
attributes that provide unique functionality across a wide spectrum of applications. In many situations, it 
is not just one particular attribute (such as low surface tension) that makes a fluoropolymer or 
fluoroelastomer effective for an application, but the combination of several attributes that enable 
fluorinated organics to satisfy multiple, overlapping performance requirements. 
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 4 
Given the importance of fluorinated organic chemicals in semiconductor manufacturing, the 
Semiconductor PFAS Consortium has developed seven white papers2, three case studies and a paper 
detailing the “Impact of a Potential PFAS Restriction on the Semiconductor Sector.”3 These papers 
identify PFAS uses in semiconductor manufacturing and assess where their use meets the concept of 
“essential.”4 In their papers, the authors conclude that for most PFAS use cases, non-PFAS alternatives 
providing the same performance characteristics are currently unavailable.   
Figure 1 is a broad overview of the scope of the Semiconductor PFAS Consortium’s analysis, showing 
both front- and back-end semiconductor processing, as well as facility support functions and device 
assembly, test and packaging operations. The scope of the operations considered by the Semiconductor 
PFAS Consortium starts with a bare silicon wafer entering a manufacturing facility and ends at the 
packaging of semiconductor devices, while including semiconductor and manufacturing related 
equipment (SMRE) and the facility infrastructure required to manufacture semiconductor devices. The 
scope does not include the manufacturing of articles, SMRE or facility infrastructure components, which 
can be potential sources of release in their own right. Similarly, the scope does not include potential 
releases from the use of products generated by semiconductor manufacturing or packaging processes. 
 
Figure 1: General overview of semiconductor manufacturing process steps, operations and systems 
evaluated by the Semiconductor PFAS Consortium. 
 

Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 5 
Objective 
The objective of this paper is to identify the principal, PFAS environmental release pathways from the use 
of articles in semiconductor manufacturing facilities and provide a generalized template for the 
development of specific PFAS release quantification models for semiconductor manufacturing. 
Conceptual Release Map 
Figure 2 shows a schematic representation of the life cycle of articles: their introduction, use, retire and 
disposal from a semiconductor manufacturing facility. Numbers indicate various means of use (in black), 
release pathways (in blue) or release (red). 
Initial facility bring-up (1) may introduce an article in both the facilities infrastructure (1a) and the SMRE 
(1b). During facility operation (2), adding a new infrastructure (2a) or SMRE (2b) may include the 
introduction of new articles. Regular equipment and facilities use drives the consumption of replacement 
parts (2c) and consumables (2d). Articles consumed or replaced exit the facility (3), and if contaminated 
with process chemicals or residues, may undergo decontamination (3a). 
Premature use or failure may cause the return of parts or consumables to the supplier (3b). If the spent 
article is eligible for reuse, it may be refurbished (3c) or otherwise recycled (3d). If these options are not 
viable, the manufacturer may dispose of the article through incineration or send it to a solid waste landfill 
(3e).  Similarly, Figure 2 shows paths for the retirement of parts at end of life or shutdown (4, 4a-e).   
Table 1 details each example illustrated in Figure 2 and includes estimates of the duration of use (lifetime) 
of each release map variable.  Figure 2 is representative of a semiconductor fabrication facility (fab), but 
is additionally representative of other semiconductor manufacturing facilities (such as photomask and 
assembly test and packaging),which have analogous infrastructures, SMRE and use models, and spare 
parts and consumables models. 
 
 
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 6 
 
Figure 2: Representative life of articles in semiconductor manufacturing operations and facility infrastructure. 
 

Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 7 
 
Figure 3: Examples of SMRE core equipment.  

Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 8 
Table 1: Potential PFAS-containing article time in service and release pathways. 
Release Map 
Variable  
Release Map Variable 
Description 
Time in Service/ 
Life Cycle 
Comments 
1 Initial facility construction   
1a Installation of facilities 
infrastructure and 
components 
25 plus years Generally, a factory has a greater than 25-year life span, as do 
facility systems. Bulk chemical distribution  systems may have a 
shorter life span because of process chemistry changes; thus, 
construction materials have a 25-year useful life span.  
 
 
1b Installation of SMRE 25 plus years 
The lifetime of individual 
pieces of equipment can 
vary 
A modern semiconductor manufacturing facility contains 
hundreds of pieces of processing equipment. Fluoropolymers 
and fluoroelastomers play a pivotal role in semiconductor 
manufacturing equipment given their exceptional chemical 
resistance, thermal stability and low particle generation 
properties. Additionally, some articles are made of a non-PFAS 
polymer that contains PFAS from processing aids or additives. 
Manufacturers use articles within SMRE in various ways, 
depending upon the article and its supply chain. They purchase 
some articles for direct use, such as perfluoroalkoxy copolymer 
(PFA) tubing cut to length from larger spools. Other articles, 
such as a flow controller, are contained within a part purchased 
from other suppliers for either direct use or as part of an 
assembly. Finally, parts and assemblies may be combined into 
additional assemblies and integrated into higher-level equipment 
before being supplied to the facility. 
 
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 9 
Release Map 
Variable  
Release Map Variable 
Description 
Time in Service/ 
Life Cycle 
Comments 
2 Normal facility operations  Includes routine maintenance, retooling and process 
modifications 
2a Installation/major 
reconfiguration of facilities 
infrastructure and 
components 
15-plus years If a factory has been repurposed for another process or function 
(like C4 bump back end), there may be a need to rebuild some 
facility systems to accommodate new process requirements or 
equipment. Old facility materials may not be compatible with 
new processes or not required, necessitating their removal or 
replacement. This is more likely for bulk chemical delivery 
systems and waste systems. Occasionally, facilities may have 
entire production lines reconfigured or completely shut down. 
During construction excess material (overage) deemed unusable 
may be discarded. 
2b Installation/upgrade of SMRE 15-plus years At various times during the lifetime of a semiconductor 
manufacturing facility, existing equipment may require 
modification or replacement because of changes in the chip 
design or the migration of a process from another facility. 
Occasionally, major upgrades are provided for equipment. 
During equipment or infrastructure installation excess material 
(overage) deemed unusable may be discarded. 
2c Replacement parts Various, as needed Articles contained in SMRE and facilities infrastructure may 
need replacing when failing prematurely, or when newer articles 
become available with improved performance characteristics. 
The equipment supplier evaluates new or changed replacement 
parts for proper performance before using them within the 
original equipment supplier. 
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 10 
Release Map 
Variable  
Release Map Variable 
Description 
Time in Service/ 
Life Cycle 
Comments 
2d Consumables Weekly to one year Manufacturers typically replace certain articles (filters, gaskets, 
O-rings) on a regular preventive maintenance schedule of 
varying time periods. Consumables are a subset of replacement 
parts are replaced per a preventive maintenance to keep 
processing equipment operating properly and avoid unwanted 
downtime caused by an unexpected component failure. 
3 Spent consumables, 
preventive maintenance, 
component failure 
  
3a Removal of spent 
consumables or components 
from preventive maintenance 
or component failure to 
determine their potential 
contamination 
Variable  Manufacturers evaluate spent consumables or end-of life 
components to determine whether they are contaminated from 
process or facilities chemistries. If the article is contaminated, it 
may be decontaminated for safe handling, storage or disposal. 
3b Decision point for premature 
failure/warranty claim 
Variable Manufacturers return the article to the supplier if it fails 
prematurely or as part of a warranty claim. Once returned, the 
supplier typically repairs or replaces the article, with any waste 
generated being their responsibility. 
3c Decision point on the 
possibility of refurbishing the 
article 
Variable The article may be refurbished on-site, at a supplier location or 
at the original manufacturer, with waste generated from the 
refurbishment process managed according to the waste 
management hierarchy. The manufacturer would then return the 
article to service or place it in a parts crib for future use. If it is 
not possible to refurbish the article, it moves to the next step of 
the life-cycle flow diagram. 
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 11 
Release Map 
Variable  
Release Map Variable 
Description 
Time in Service/ 
Life Cycle 
Comments 
3d Spent consumables and end-
of-life components sent for 
recycling 
Variable Articles no longer suitable for manufacturing or operations use 
that are sent for recycling may include high-value 
fluoropolymers such as PFA or polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), 
or articles primarily made of other recyclable materials (such as 
metals) that are coated with or contain PFAS components. 
3e Spent consumables and end-
of-life components sent for 
incineration or landfill 
disposal 
Variable Manufacturers send articles no longer suitable for manufacturing 
or operations use that cannot be sent for recycling (such as 
fluoropolymers that do not have a recycling market or cannot be 
decontaminated) for incineration or disposal in a landfill. The 
decision for incineration vs. landfill disposal most often depends 
on local regulations. In Europe, these articles would be burned 
in a waste-to-energy facility. In the U.S., they are typically sent 
to a municipal solid waste landfill unless classified as regulated 
waste, in which case they would be sent to a permitted 
hazardous waste landfill. 
4 End of life, asset 
redeployment 
  
4a Removal of SMRE, 
components or facilities 
infrastructures that are at their 
end of life or no longer used, 
and may be redeployed 
Variable Manufacturers evaluate SMRE, components or facilities 
infrastructures to determine whether they are contaminated from 
process or facilities chemistries. If the article is contaminated, 
they decide whether to decontaminate the article for safe 
handling, storage or disposal. In many cases, it is possible to 
decontaminate SMRE. In other cases, it is difficult to remove 
certain process chemistries, or they have become embedded in 
the article. 
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 12 
Release Map 
Variable  
Release Map Variable 
Description 
Time in Service/ 
Life Cycle 
Comments 
4b SMRE, components or 
facilities infrastructures that 
are redeployed 
Variable SMRE, components or facilities infrastructures that still have a 
useful life can be deployed within the facility or at another 
company location. There may be some waste generated during 
redeployment if components need replacement to maintain 
functionality or to fit a new use, with any waste generated 
managed according to the waste management hierarchy. 
4c SMRE, components or 
facilities infrastructures that 
may go into the resale market 
Variable SMRE, components or facilities infrastructures that still have a 
useful life can enter the resale market. There may be some waste 
generated during resale if some components need replacement to 
maintain functionality or to fit a new use, with any waste 
generated managed according to the waste management 
hierarchy. 
4d SMRE, components or 
facilities infrastructures that 
may be recycled 
Variable SMRE, components or facilities infrastructures that are no 
longer suitable for manufacturing or operations use can be sent 
for recycling. These may include high-value fluoropolymers 
such as PFA or PTFE, or articles primarily made of other 
recyclable materials (such as metals) that are coated with or 
contain PFAS components. PFAS materials commingled with 
other recyclable materials are not in the scope of this 
assessment. 
4e SMRE, components or 
facilities infrastructures that 
cannot be recycled and must 
be disposed 
Variable Manufacturers send PFAS-containing articles that do not have a 
recycling market for incineration or disposal in a landfill. The 
decision for incineration vs. landfill disposal most often depends 
on local regulations. In Europe, these articles would be burned 
in a waste-to-energy facility. In the U.S., they are typically sent 
to a municipal solid waste landfill unless classified as regulated 
waste, in which case they would be sent to a permitted 
hazardous waste landfill. 
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 13 
Release Map 
Variable  
Release Map Variable 
Description 
Time in Service/ 
Life Cycle 
Comments 
4f SMRE, components or 
facilities infrastructure 
articles may be scavenged for 
valuable parts that may be 
resold 
Variable SMRE, components or facilities infrastructures that are not 
viable for resale may be disassembled and individual parts may 
be resold onto the secondary market for future use.  The 
scavenging process may generate waste, which the manufacturer 
would then manage according to the waste management 
hierarchy. If it is not possible to resell the scavenged part outside 
of the enterprise, it moves to the next step of the life-cycle flow 
diagram (4d/4e). 
4g SMRE, components or 
facilities infrastructure 
articles may be scavenged for 
valuable parts for reuse by the 
manufacturer 
Variable SMRE, components or facilities infrastructures that are not 
viable for resale may be disassembled and individual parts may 
be scavenged and retained in parts inventory for future use by 
the enterprise.  The scavenging process may generate waste, 
which the manufacturer would then manage according to the 
waste management hierarchy. If it is not possible to retain the 
article/part for future use, it moves to the next step of the life-
cycle flow diagram (4d/4e). 
Release factors and data sources are listed as “undetermined” if industry data has not been collected to support quantification.   
Numeric release factors may be evaluated during Consortium quantification work  
Rev. 0 
 Copyright © 2023 the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). All rights reserved. 14 
Conclusions and Next Steps 
As shown in the process mapping and enumeration of the use of articles in chip manufacturing processes, 
identifying sources of potential release is highly involved. The next step in this process is to estimate the 
quantification of the release in order to identify the largest potential sources and mechanisms. 
The industry, through collaborative engagements like the Semiconductor PFAS Consortium, are engaging 
in detailed studies of the propensity for articles in the manufacturing process to release PFAS-containing 
materials during their regular use. In parallel, the semiconductor industry continues to actively identify, 
test and implement improved process controls that minimize releases to the environment, including 
PFAS-containing materials. There is also an increasing focus on developing circularity for PFAS-
containing materials, including fluoropolymers, through reuse and recycling. 
Finally, the industry is and has been researching prospective PFAS substitutes. The identification and 
validation of alternatives is an expensive and lengthy process that entails identifying potential substitutes, 
evaluating their potential human and environmental risks, conducting laboratory and pilot tests, designing 
and retooling equipment, and conducting verification tests and qualification in a high-volume 
manufacturing environment before final implementation. 
By taking a holistic, multifaceted approach to identify and minimize potential releases, seek circularity 
solutions, and explore alternative materials, the semiconductor articles community is continuing to 
demonstrate its commitment to being good stewards of this unique class of materials. 
 
1 OECD, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 2021. Reconciling Terminology of the Universe 
of Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances: Recommendations and Practical Guidance. OECD Series on Risk 
Management. 
2 Semiconductor PFAS Consortium technical white papers and case studies can be found at 
https://semiconductors.org/pfas. 
3 RINA. 2023. The Impact of a Potential PF AS Restriction on the Semiconductor Sector. Impact Assessment, 
Leatherhead: RINA Tech UK Ltd. 
4 Cousins, Ian T., Gretta Goldenman, Dorte Herzke, Rainer Lohmann, Mark Miller, Carla A. Ng, Sharyle Patton et 
al. 2019. “The concept of essential use for determining when uses of PFASs can be phased out.” Environmental 
Science: Processes & Impacts 1803-1815. 